it is
102 so hello everyone welcome to
today's panel my name is Anal and I'm a
program manager on the ecosystem team at
the Stellar development foundation which
is a nonprofit organization founded in
2014 to support the development and
growth of the open source Stellar
Network so welcome everyone so today
I'm we are having a panel about how
to succeed in the Stellar Community Fund
now will we will talk about the
Stella Community Fund quite a bit and
Stellar Community Fund quite a bit and
we will also refer to it as an AB
abbreviation SCF so you'll be hearing
that a lot SCF stands for Stellar
Community Fund and SDF stands for
Stellar development foundation so so
be sure to take note of that but what is
SCF so the Stell Community Fund is an
open application grant program hosted by
SDF
that serves as the springboard for many
businesses and Developers for many
businesses building an on Stellar to
turn their Concepts into tangible
products and services and it's also
where SDF is providing funding but
actually the community allocates
allocates where the funding goes to
so together with its predecessor the
Stellar Brill challenge has been around
actually since 2016 it's quite ancient
in the blockchain industry and has
distributed almost 200 million lumens to
hundreds of Stellar based projects based
on community input including familiar
names like Stellar expert Lobster
light Min and ancl and a few names that
you'll hear very soon so if you ever
looked at Grand space and `stellar.org`
you see that we actually have many
grants but SCF is really quite special
three reasons all kinds of use cases
and pro projects scope sizes are
welcome and the community is actively
involved in guiding and supporting
the projects as well as voting for
projects they want to see earn a grant
and SCF grants are are no strings
attached so that means that Grant
recipients decide how to spend their
Grant and don't have to pay anything
back so it's quite special how does
SCF work in short it gives these like
you know Community companies and
Builders an opportunity to present
Stellar based projects to the BR Stell
Community for feedback and gives the BR
Stellar Community an opportunity to give
feedback and weigh in which projects
to serve Lumen grants we are doing it
currently by anually on a Cadence on
in the form of rounds so each of these
rounds are listed on community fund.
Stellar.org
they have a set pool of lumens
allocated for distribution to winning
projects of that round and they consist
of a few few phases that you see here
currently we're actually in the
submission phase for the 11th
edition of the Stell Community Fund
and has a total pool of 8 million xlm to
distribute so that means that any
eligible developer team or company
building on Stellar can submit now to
the SCF and request funding up to 200k
depending on their project scope so
aside from funding participating in the
SCF allows you to gather useful feedback
from a community gain Traction in the
ecosystem and open up a unique
opportunities for growth we're also
having a very exciting startup boot camp
if you submit before September 25th
so definitely look into this but to
be considered for participation then
really to you know before your
project reaches Community eyes your
project need to pass the selection panel
first and this is no small feat so last
round actually less than a third of
submissions were selected to move
forward and to learn how to set up your
project for Success stay on to hear
from leaders of Allstar pro project
winners of the previous Ed SCF rounds
Alfred pay beans app Leaf Global fintech
Stellar Global and qued on how to set
your project up for Success so I talked
a lot but let's start with some
introductions and we'll start with
Alfred P so take it
away an thank you so much for having us
just a little bit of intro on us in
Alfred pay we participated in Sellar
Community Fund number nine we are
fortunate to be one of the winners there
a little bit about us and what we do
we're currently an anchor on the network
that processes usdc payouts into the
Dominican Republic our ideas to scale
from there and also build the
Dominican Republic stable coin as we
scale our solution there and vertically
we also have the Alfred pay wallet which
is a user facing product and we brand
ourselves as a web 2.5 company because
we use blockchain as the underlining
Tech but we provide a traditional
payment experience so users are able to
send USC by connecting their bank
account with plaid Apple pay or V
Master cards and then very much like the
money gam integration our goal is is
start with that and we try to provide as
many outlets into local currency as
possible so currently we're part of the
largest ATM network on the ground in the
Dominican Republic that allows you to
withdraw in over 800 ATMs on the
ground so USC for local Dominican pesos
also over 150 brick and mortars aside
of the ones that money gram has which I
believe they have an additional 600
there and last but not least door to
door delivery so door to door cash
delivery in under two hours in exchange
for usdc which is something super
powerful and yeah last but not least
we're operational in the Dominican
Republic as I mentioned right now and
in quarter four of this year we're going
to be launching our anchor in
Haiti wow that's really impressive I
can't believe like it's been a while
since I also heard from you and every
time I hear from you it seems like
you've like just done so many new
developments and really making real
change for people so this is really
exciting great well thank you so much
for being on board let's hear from
beans app
next great yeah thank you my name is
wter founder of beans app and beans app
took part in the last SCF round on
number 10 and beans is a non-custodial
wallet that enables anyone to send
internationally at zero fee
so the problem we saw as many people
building on Stellar know is that that
International payments are slow and
expensive and blockchain could solve
that but it's often very complicated for
normal people so what we've done is
build a noncustodial app that removes
all the the crypto or blockchain
things to the back end so as a user that
means you don't interact with private
Keys you don't interact with trust lines
or any of that so when you create your
wallet you choose your favorite currency
for example dollars and then if you want
to send money to someone in I don't know
Argentina that wants to receive peso all
you have to do is look them up the app
will know that they want to receive
pesos and show you the right conversion
and all you have to do is type in how
much you want to send so you don't even
have to think about the currency they
want to receive and that all with zero
fees so and the same you can do with
requests so you can request something
and when someone pay it it will
automatically convert into the right
currency for
them so that's beans so basically a
global venmo is what we're trying to
build here
super excited to be part of this so
thanks yeah I was also really excited
when I when I heard that you as you
know long Community longtime Community
member like finally like had a project
and it was like super like I I really
and it was like super like I really
like this project like it seems like
it's it's a got a very it it like this
has been an existing problem right but
really having like such a Innovative
and and like such a like really great
design and and great thinking about for
the solution I think that's that's
what's really unique and yeah so I'm
very excited all right well we'll hear
more from you but let's go I want to
hear now from funto of
quid fto are you able I think you need
to unmute
first okay sorry about that hi
everyone fto barice I'm out of Abuja
Nigeria I'm excited to be here and
part of we won in SCF round nine
and cryto is an online facturing
platform that where transactions
are streamlined where smes can get
paid fast cas cash what when they
sell their invoices and how we're
leveraging Stellar Stellar
platform or the the blockchain is is
really to optimize the payment and
financial transactions and for us
particularly we're optimizing for
quick transparent and efficient
invoicing financing for smes we the
funding we got in the saf round nine
definitely helped us to build we're
still build mode but we've been able
to sort of make inroads we pivoted a
bit because we were focusing on smes
before right now we're working trying
to work with vendors directly just
because of some of the issues with
repayments and things like that but
excited to be here to answer any
questions that anybody
has awesome yeah no it's exciting I
remember so quid was also like
participated in a 2021 boot camp with
the fs lab and you were also very
early in development then and kind of
seeing how much you've already grown
right and it it's kind of
unprecedented almost for like a start up
like I I I think it's it's really great
like I think it's it's really great
great work there so yeah excited to hear
more from your learnings as well but
we have two more introductions Nat
from Leaf Global fintech take it away
great thank you and thank you all for
for having us Leaf is a digital wallet
that was designed initially for refugees
and migrants people who are fleeing
conflict and carrying cash across
borders but may have a mobile phone and
so we've designed our wallets to work
and help customers who have both
smartphones or non-smartphones we use a
technology called ussd that's very
prominent throughout Africa and East
Africa where customers can load funds
onto our wallet and cross those
&
borders safely without carrying cash
so we are live in Kenya Uganda and
Rwanda and looking to expand to more
partners and more countries throughout
Africa but really have designed leave to
be a a global solution we spent a lot
of time in Colombia and helping and
talking to Venezuelan migrants coming
across the border and everyone facing
the same challenge of carrying cash
having a phone can't get a bank
account but I think can really
benefit from from these Services I
will say also that we launched nft
art sales program for some of our
Refugee customers on Leaf to help
them create and mints nfts on life mint
and then sell sell those to the global
community and then we would send those
funds directly to their Leaf wallets
that's been a lot of fun and exciting to
work on with
Stellar yeah yeah no thank you and leaf
Global fex also been around for quite a
bit like I think it was the seventh
round right this is already feels like
ages
ago yeah yeah yeah yeah you're
Old-Timers in this this new industry no
but I think it's it's really great and
really cool to see such an Innovative
use case as well that's making real
impact so yeah no looking forward to
hearing from you more and last but
not least Sam from Stellar Global take
it away hey Ana hey everybody great to
see all these faces again yeah so I'm
Sam and I founded a community called
Stellar Global actually back man
2019 and so actually been doing it for a
while and and really it it was
kind of birth out the notion that I
always looked at Stellar as this
incredible opportunity to Foster
entrepreneurs and developers and
really help to build economic
prosperity and opportunities for a lot
of people and so yeah Stella Globe
of people and so yeah Stellar Globe
has been great we entered into the
fund actually just last year so I think
this was what the 10th one was it the
10th one I'm wondering was it the 10th
11th I don't even know what number we
were now no you were in the ninth so it
wasn't all right yeah so so it's been
great it's really allowed the ability
to do a lot more onsite this past
year having a chance to speak at Davos
and be a voice also head to
Washington DC where we helped to
Advocate for Black and Latino
developers and entrepreneurs that are
building on chain as well as several
other things you know doing podcast
videos engagement so yeah we could
talk a lot more in detail later on but
really glad to be here awesome well
thank you we're honored that you're here
Sam is definitely the most active
Community member that we have and even
much more than that like you're also
part of light Min now right yeah yeah
another SDF winner as well I got
to meet Fred back in 2019 as well and
so it's been great I on a a strategic
advisor for light mint and we're
doing some great things so really really
happy shout out to Fred awesome yes
shout out to Fred if he's watching
hopefully U well you know and that
really leads us into the discussion
right and so here if you're here in the
audience if you're on Zoom you have the
chance as a an audience member to ask
questions to any of these panelists and
I will be taking a look at the the
questions the Q&A section here so
definitely add your questions and I I
will ask them if they're you know if
they're relevant to the discussion so
let me stop sharing my screen and
let's start in panel mode so let's go
into one of the first questions so for
the like for about 15 minutes I I really
the like for about 15 minutes I really
would like to know a little bit more
about your experience like coming into
the SCF and how they how you've grown
since then so yeah like like you know
and this can be of any phase like maybe
the you know the submission or like the
community discussion like what was your
experience in the SCF anyone feel
free to chip in otherwise I'm going to
assign
someone all right Sam since you have
your microphone
unmuted yeah you know for for me
it was great so you know I started
off like I said as a community member
and I typically looked at the CF
strictly from like a business like okay
like look at the businesses that are
that are joining in but for myself as
Sanka mentioned I was spending a lot of
time just in doing things and so what
the SCF funds allowed you know us to
do was really from encouragment one from
the Community they're like hey look
there's a lot more you know you could do
you know we're spending a lot of time
involved in this you know you
definitely should reach out to it and
so getting involved was was really
great going through the process
and yeah it's really allowed just for
larger exposure not just for Stellar
Global but you know the entire
Stellar ecosystem as a whole I got to
do a lot more traveling and really put
that I guess the message and the the
mission of what Stellar is all about
on the road and I think it helped to
make a lot a lot more impact and then
also you know having those funds
allowed me to free up my time I I wasn't
allowed me to free up my time I wasn't
working throughout the air kind of
focus solely on this and so it allowed
for a lot more Twitter spaces a lot more
engagements you know speaking with
leaders all across the world so
yeah it I think it's helped there and
we've seen just that sort of impact
within the community members I'm
really happy the way Stellar Global
itself has grown out you know from it
we've seen other businesses we
there's many here on the call here that
has used our utilized and leveraged
the community I know I've interviewed
like say leave Global I've been down to
Miami to see what Diego was doing
firsthand and and and really support
Alfred pay so I think it really opened
up those Dynamics and then we're seeing
other folks that are doing things as
well I mean you seen from Stellar Global
you see for instance what eir has is
his impact that has been that he's put
out throughout the community as well
we see people let's say like the
SDF who has been leveraging the Stella
Global community directly as well well
their Community manager manager is in
there often we see members of the
engineering team that are leveraging
Stella Global Discord as well so you
Stellar Global Discord as well so you
know I think it's it's really helped to
kind of create a a foundation of the
culture for the community and and
hopefully that can spread into other
endeavors but yeah I'll pause there
awesome yeah know I I I really enjoy
awesome yeah know I really enjoy
being in there it's also like everyone's
also so like positive right because you
have like so many communities like out
there on the internet and it's like you
know like oh like you kind of have to
try it carefully because like you know
there there's scams left and right right
especially in the crypto Community but
Stella Global like when I was in there
Stellar Global like when I was in there
like people are just so nice and like
you know and that and that is like
really good Community Management like
fostering that culture is so important
so yeah definitely shout out and shout
out to some people that you mentioned
like's shout out to John I know he's in
there all the time spintax great well
speaking about Community right vouter
I know that you've also been in the
community for a long time how did you
get started and then how did what was
your experience in the SCF like what
stood
out yeah I think this this idea of
wanting to pay in a non-custodial way
and for being able to pay anyone has
been in my mind for quite a long time
and since I traveled to east of Asia and
having to pay or transfer my money
from euros into the local currency was
very hard and I found Stellar and did it
by that in
2017 and then I was really in inspired
and hoping for for some Global ven mode
to come up and then I haven't seen it so
started it and then on on the experience
of SCF what I think is besides the
funding and speeding up your development
what is super interesting is that you
are forced to do a lot of things
basically by taking part so what you do
is you get engagement from very
engaged testers so you get people that
that want to review what you're doing so
they give you very valuable feedback so
that's very important to us as well
so that's one another one is that we did
this community pitch right so yeah
you're forced to write down what your
problem is what what product you
offering so that that's good to think
about you write it down as well as
part of your submission which is good to
do you can easily fall into the Trap
that yeah I've got it all in my mind
right but it's good to to write it down
for someone else to read
it and then finally you have a whole
network of people seeing what you build
so people can reach out to you in a very
early phase and and create valuable
connections from that so I think in the
experience it's it's way more than just
applying to get funding it's it's also a
process that gives you a lot of value I
think yeah
yeah yeah no I I think that's yeah that
yeah yeah no I think that's yeah that
because that's also what I hear hear
from a lot of people that like yeah I
mean they you know they need funding
like everyone needs funding to get
started to fund their development to
fund like any like to scale their
project right but I guess like what
people walk away with is really that
experience like let's say like Nat
fto or Diego does that resonate with any
of you feel free to Che
in yeah so for me you know I was very
I mean fortunate and privileged to have
attended the boot camp before joining
the community and I think that was a
game changer like you you mentioned
we were very early early stage when
we applied and that's one thing I would
say say to anybody who's listening you
you don't have to have like a a a
project or you know you know
something that is already established or
you know it could be early stage and you
can still apply right and I always
help that I'm a non-tech female founder
so I literally learned a lot during the
book camp and just even in terms of just
you know design thinking and all that
right was is very great and then joining
the the community I will say that
similar to what w had said you know
there are people who will kick the tires
around your idea and sort of challenge
you and then you have to go back and
sort of look at what you're doing and
say oh does this make sense or how do I
solve this or how do I answer this
because you know that they're somewhat
waiting for your response right so you
go back to your team and you're like
okay so what is you know how do we solve
this right this is a problem and if
these people are asking this question it
means other people are going to ask the
question so for me it the the
community was great that way but like
I said I you know people sometimes might
not apply because maybe they're worried
or scared or for me I if I could apply
and you know I'm still on this panel
today talking I'll encourage anybody
who's building anything on using
blockchain to apply because you never
know one again there are people in the
community who are willing to support who
are willing to help who are willing to
ask questions who are willing to you
know give their five cents as needed
so you can't really go wrong right so it
all like an incubation place as well
where you're building but there's a lot
of safety to some degree around it where
you're not just flailing by yourself all
over the place so again I would
encourage everybody who's you know maybe
of two minds to definitely check
it out and definitely apply awesome oh
that's I'm I'm like really happy to hear
that your experience as well especially
like you know really like using it as as
some like feedback like a space also
like to develop like it's not that you
don't need to send in a you know
completely perfect Pro product or
because well there is nothing like
you're always going to iterate you're
always going to develop
yeah and so like let's say like
Diego like I know that you've
participated in SCF 9 so that was a bit
more of the recent rounds where we had
you know all these different like phases
as well like what what did what
jumped out for you and what was your
experience our EXP experience in SCF in
SCF was awesome first and foremost
like I think it was it was fitting for
Sam to talk first because one of our
first images of seller other than going
on and reading a little bit about what
Stellar does what Sam platform through
Stellar Global so being able to dive
further into Stellar Global and and see
some of the previous projects what other
projects on the ecosystem are building
it it really gave us that had to
start and also we connected with Sam I
think that connecting with Sam is never
a bad idea and I think that everybody
here can can vouch to that but our
experience for stf was was great for us
we we are really passionate about what
we're building like water Comm said
earlier like the payment space today is
is extremely inefficient and through
Stellar we're able to to build that
change and one of the coolest things is
that we're all if you're applying for
the SCF the concept is that you're
building a long-term project correct
like your project doesn't end right
after the Community Fund is over and
what that means is that you're going to
have to raise a lot of money
truthfully but one of the cool things
is that the audience here is the
audience that is receptive to seller
know what is knows the power of so you
get that validation from the community
that is a able to fund your project and
then catapult you I mean we've been
extremely extremely blessed post SCF
and I think that this is also credit to
LEAP Global we got into the Berkeley
blockchain accelerator which as I
said leap Global paved the way for us in
that in that side but all the things
wouldn't have been possible without the
validation of the community so the
community saw we were building they
appreciated us they gave us that funding
it's giving us the ability to build and
then it's open doors to accelerators
open networks to different investors
of of folks that I look at and I'm like
how the heck did we get here in such
short period amount of time but it's
a cool thing about building it's a cool
thing about this community as you
mentioned there's a lot of communities
in crypto but I think the cool thing
about staler is that it's an open
network it it enables inter
interoperability like beans is
building something similar to what we're
building but the cool thing is that a
beans user can send out for pay user we
can cash them out in our local country
we're we're an interoperable platform
that really empowers entrepreneurs to
collaborate together and and yeah and
it really is most to credit to the SCF
and and and what what you and the team
have built through here so thank you
well not not only me there's actually a
a whole group of verified members in
the Stella Community Fund that gives
the Stellar Community Fund that gives
input and and really like allows for
that feedback right so shout out to our
the life force of the Stell Community
Fund our verified members sorry all
right but yeah no that's that's
really where that comes from and yeah I
mean you mentioned how the that we got
here well I know how you got here
through through the stall Community Fund
right and also through that you did such
hard work and you actually you know did
a lot of things that set you up for
success and we're going to get that in
in that more detail later on but
first I wanted to hear a bit about
from from that like before we dive into
kind of the advice part Nat I know
that Alfred PES mentioned you on the
accelerator part as well you started
with the blockchain Berkeley accelerator
but how did you decide to go even into
the Stellar Community Fund how did you
make that that yeah that I guess yeah
switch know it's just to Echo everyone
else the the community has been
incredible just fantastic and growing
every year too I think you know when we
first started it was a little less well
known with investors and other community
members but it's it's it's incredible
now and especially allot of the work
that Sam's been doing he's been
promoting us so much it's been you
know just unbelievable how much he's
he's been over backwards to help us so
we're very appreciative of that and you
know Sam's out speaking to Davos and
like promoting the work that Stellar's
doing globally and that's only getting
getting better so it's it's really
been an honor to be part of this
community I'd say Tori and I Tori
co-founder of leaf had a great time out
in Meridian in in Mexico and I think
that was a really our first big
opportunity just to see what the
community looks like and now that we're
able to have more inperson events I'd
highly recommend anyone you know to
attend to attend those and a network and
to see what's out there what's building
and you know people are just
supportive and helpful it's it's a
fantastic experience in community and
so I after leaving all those
accelerators we did a lot of
accelerators so people want advice on
accelerators and boot camps we're happy
to help but brookley was a fantastic one
and a lot of them don't come with
funding you know that's one of the
downside a lot of support you know
networks we'll connect to investors but
when it comes to actually putting in
capital there's very few that do that
and that's what was I think
transformative for us with SCF is is
actually now leveraging some of that
Capital to use and some of the early
stage work that investors won't
support and fund and it's it's all
worked out for us as
well awesome yeah no that's great to
hear yeah because like you need both
sides right you need that support that
support is like so important but then
you also need that early stage capital
and sometimes it's difficult to get
because investors like you actually like
need to to show a lot and that you've
done a lot and especially for early
stage like you know you got to get
started and SCF is like this like you
know Kickstart funding almost that no
strings attached to don't need to pay
back you don't even need to work on
your project anymore if you don't want
to we do encourage you and there is a
guilt tripping if you don't do it just
kidding from from the community but
anyway you know it's like this unique
opportunity really to to get funding
and it's quite yeah you don't really
see that very often even in the
blockchain ecosystem so well great it
just great also to hear from your
experiences and now in the last like
half an hour or so I really want to
like well the actually the audience
really wants to know how they can
improve their submission as they're
writing them right now for scf1 and
this is very important and so you've
been through the process you have worked
so much on your on your startup and and
your company right and I really want to
know now how you set yourself up for
success in the SCF so
let's dive let's dive into to that
right
we start with here I also have some
audience questions and we can we can
kind of a free flowing discussion here
but I think like a lot of questions
here actually go about the
community engagement here from Carlos
there's a question how to best engage
with voting members of the community so
who wants to start
yeah I get that question a lot you
know I I think that ultimately you
know I think that ultimately you
know ultimately I I I feel that where
know ultimately I feel that where
people let's say make the biggest
mistake is that you know well number one
find something that you're passionate
about right I think sometimes people
find you know business you know they
they kind of look at the SCF as like as
strictly from look I can create a job or
money the money side of it right and I
just think that's the wrong way of
looking at it because you know to really
engage in the community you have to be
in the community you know there's you
know right now in Stellar Global there
it's a different time zone for for
somebody different right you know so
it's like you know it might be 4:00 am
to you but it's 1 pm to somebody else
and etc etc and so you really got to be
engaged in the community the only way
you can be engaged in community is if a
you're passionate about what you're
trying to build
and to be passionate about something you
have to really believe that you're
solving a problem you know you know
like I could I can look at at everybody
here and can tell you that they've all
been like actively involved in a wide
range of conversations you know we
talked about liment you know Fred is
yeah he has liment but then he's
passionate about you know okay like how
is the code being built out you know you
know what's you know what's the
structure are is the community are these
businesses you know adhering to the
centralization and some of the core
components of the community so you have
to be you know really passionately and
actively involved and when you're
involved in all these conversations and
you know people are going to find you
people are gonna know who you are
they'll get to they'll get comfortable
with you and so that way when you do
have an SCF entrance it's like okay I
know what you're doing I understand you
you're actually trying to solve a
problem
now you can start building up that
engagement so you know that's my
long-winded answer for
that yeah I also I
also I wanted to add to that I would
my advice would be to reach out early
simply because once the Community Fund
is going on let's say for the for the
40 days that it's going on people are
reaching out to the to the verified
members consistently and some of it may
feel like spam I guess just to kind
of say it bluntly but if you're if
you're reaching out early and and to to
to different members at the end of the
day it means that you know you're
interested in communicating you're
interested in connecting with with these
folks and the truth of the matter is
that we've all been in the shoes and at
least I can say it for myself where
somebody reached out to me and gave me a
a helping hand like and as I
mentioned Sam has been a great example
of that like
we need the community at the end of the
day to believe in our projects and and
we're excited about what people are
building because the stronger that the
Stellar network is the stronger that our
projects are but my advice would be
to reach out early to to some of the
verified members if you see projects
that you know correlate with some things
that you're doing reach out ask advice
and and yeah but I would I would I
think that the best strategy would be to
reach out sooner rather than later
because once the Community Fund is going
on most of us are going through the
the projects themselves reading them one
by one it's there's there's a good
amount of projects and that might not
be the greatest time to connect so
yeah yeah just to Echo what Diego
said I think you you definitely will get
what you put into it so you know if you
don't engage at all it will reflect
and if you leave it too late like
he's saying then you know you're not
going to get the sort of engagement that
you're looking for so engage sooner
and for me I think there are some people
who stand out when it comes to
engagement right and even if you can
just you know connect with those the
people that stand out right who either
give you feedback or you see them
responding a lot to different people you
know I I I call those people the
know I call those people the
champions of the of the of the of the
community right because they're they're
very engaged and so even if you can
either follow them or ask them questions
they to get a lot of reads as well so
I think you know having a strategy
around that as well is also very
important yeah so I'm hearing here like
definitely like engage early and engage
in in multiple conversations like you
know like don't like it's not only like
Well if you really want to maximize your
chances I think what Sam also mentions
like go in the actual like go in Stellar
developers Discord go in Stellar Global
like participate in some of the overall
like Stellar discussions too if that
like is relevant for your issue like I
mean in Fred's case I know that he's
been activate active for nfts and
Stellar like so much he's in all these
conversations right and so I think
that's really exciting like you really
get involved with the community and and
and work on a problem that you're really
passionate about further on like
on community engagement vouter I know
that this is another question think that
came up somewhere but I believe
you've been also really active on social
media and I think that's one of the
other things like not only like the
Discord right like all over so yeah I
would love to hear a bit more about
that yeah that's that's more
my many years long enthusiasm about
Stellar and its potential to change
people's lives
basically so and that that gives you
a lot of people that are enthusiastic
about the same thing right and maybe to
add to the the last one is what is
engagement maybe that was what I was
thinking is I don't think engagement is
like telling what you're building and
then getting some response I think you
you can you're in a super early phase so
it's very interesting also to cut it in
small pieces and get feedback from
people on specific parts so that the
answer isn't very complex and also
you're not really like trying to
convince something someone that you're
building something cool but just getting
feedback which is already
valuable and you can do that on
social media as well I think that that's
also a great way to get a lot of
feedback basically like what is the
engagement of the things you're building
and are people excited about what you're
showing them so I think it's a great way
to connect with
people yeah I like that aspect a lot not
just like hey you don't need to
convinced that your product is the
greatest of all time you can actually
listen right listen more and listen
to their feedback and show also like I
mean obviously like it has to be
constructive feedback right in the
communities it can can go all over the
place but if it's constructive listen
and Implement and follow up I think
that's really important and then
community members like you have a you
build your track record with them that's
very important yeah I wanted to add
kind of on to what Walter just said
and bring back up Fred as well is you
know Fred you know he he was I think
disqualified from the first his first
entrance into the SCF and then when I
think his his first time going through
after that I want to say he lost the SCF
before finally winning and so this is
somebody who was obviously been really
involved but you know the key is being
humble right is the fact that you know
he was humble he kept on he's he going
back to what was mentioned earlier he
took feedback came back and
reiterated okay let me try to explain it
in this this way Walter somebody else
who's been highly involved in the
community you know back in the day he
had like the Stellar torch and was
really influential in the early days as
far as helping to build up the whole
aspect of community but you know shout
out to him when he was starting off his
project he didn't come in with an
arrogance of like hey this is the best
product there is he came back exactly
exact how we saying it he was giving he
was asking for a lot of feedback you
know here's a screenshot what do you
think of this so it was this active
engagement from somebody who's you know
I would say understands the network very
well has a long history within the
community but he still came out and
did the work and that goes a long way
and so so yeah just want to reiterate
the importance of just being humble and
and really engaging and getting feedback
from people and being genuine about it
yeah yeah I think I think that's that's
really like how how you really built
that track record I think I think it's
not just a one One Stop Shop right it's
it's really like you can actually also
submit multiple times to the SCF like
you can start with a small budget and
kind of get your foot in the door ask
for lots of feedback even if your
project is not quite finished yet and
then next time you can ask for more and
kind of like show that you've
implemented the feedback so yeah
especially with with Fred like
enlightment like it's it's it's quite
interesting to see like that that like
the many times like they submitted
didn't win but submitted again anyway
right and not only does that show
a track record for the community it also
shows it for like you know SDF whenever
we have grants right oh this Pro this
project really wants to be part of the
sell ecosystem like they it's like a
qualifier almost so definitely I think
that that is really great to just
keep going ask for feedback and stay
humble great advice Nat I see that you
have your mic unmuted I wanted to hear a
bit more from you about what your advice
is to just quickly no I think it's all
been said well and yeah I think
there's no matter what you're building
somebody's already you know done
something similar or solved a lot of
your problems and I think we found a lot
of support and and resources
certainly for the wallet business
there's a lot of those instellar so
if it's groups like lobster or one
called rehive in South Africa that we
were able to connect with early on to
get advice and also to to share back you
know I think we were one of the few that
had Incorporated ussd technology and and
we're able to kind of share sort of best
practices what's worked and what hasn't
or if there's other on andof ramps
that we've had more success with I
think there's you know plenty to to give
back to but I also feel like this is
maybe an area that we could have done
more with I think the challenge that we
had with our wallet is not a lot of our
users are you know online on the
internet so it was tough to get least
you know feedback from anyone within the
the Stellar Community about our our
wallet because they couldn't download
and and use it and I think that hurt us
a little bit compared to some others
that could say look this is the feedback
this is how we've engaged the community
this is some of the things that we've
Incorporated so I definitely think we
could have done a better job earlier on
re-engaging with the the community so
we've gotten so much support since then
but yeah I was definitely one I think
could have strengthened our
application yeah I guess that's also
like points out that there so such a
wide variety in project and yeah
sometimes like maybe like beans for
example you're having like you know you
can really find your users in the
community but in other cases like your
value like feed feedback is going to
be a bit different so yeah I mean and
and as that you were also talking a bit
about you know that user validation and
and you've been working on Leaf
Global for a while what is some other
advice that that you would give to like
new submitters to put in their
submission sure and this is I think
something that helps set us apart a
little bit and also with fundraising
too is just going from that idea to like
a handful of you know test users or
just something real theoretical to
actually like moving money and and
getting real live users and processing
transactions I think that is a huge
hurdle to do and it's tough to get
the you know regulation the licensing
the partners being able to move funds
getting kyc right like there's a ton
involved there going from zero to one
is is a big heavy lift I think that it
might just been timing that we were
lucky with that with with our
applications that we finally got over
some of those hurdles after like five or
six false starts and you know get things
going and then it would shut down and
then another partner would get shut down
starting with another so just the
startup life but I think that is
really key to be able to articulate that
I feel like that really helped us a bit
is like this is more than an idea we've
got you know at the time I think five or
6 thousand customers that were
processing you know 100,000 plus
transactions like we actually had good
data on the flow and you could see it
all was all all on the the Sellar
Explorer so like that was fun to be able
to then show is like we're actually
opening accounts for people people are
using it this is how the the flows are
and so trying to get to that step as
early as you can I think
helps yes user validation numbers data
like show show data to convince like
you don't like U you can prove that your
product works right especially on I mean
Stellar right I mean yeah you can see it
on Stellar expert like it's all recorded
you can't even fake it right so I think
that's really exciting so I think
that's a really great lesson for people
it's like you know do your homework
get user validation early like show what
you've done like prove your track record
I think even if it's as you know
little as just a few people like if a
few people really like your project and
and you know you're in early stage
there's a big chance that a lot of
people will right so yeah let's let's
see who who has anything to add to
that like numbers and how did you get to
those numbers like what are some like
advice that you would give anyone here
feel free to chip
in you see some people
unmuting I I'll I'll add to that because
I think that that's something that we've
actually been been dealing with recently
and I love that point of getting from
zero to one one of the best advice
that we got recently was that when your
product launches it should suck and
that's okay because part of it is is
understanding what's not working what is
working and so on so one of our biggest
priorities as of late has been
exiting beta and getting the product
in the hands of people to see what's
actually working what's not working what
users like what they don't like and
someone like me who's like
details of like every like no this has
to be like two fonts smaller and it has
to be in this corner instead of this one
like it it has brought some like
Perfection paralysis I guess to to what
we've been so focused and excited on
building but I'm just so excited to
get this in the hands of people like
we recently launched our anchor in our
in our exiting beta October 1st and if I
wouldn't have gotten that advice which
is exactly what Nat is is pointing at we
we would probably still be so paralyzed
in in the process of getting everything
right and it's understanding that your
product is never going to be perfect in
this stage and that's why we're here you
know that there's no better Community to
rely on feedback than than this
community so I just wanted to add those
points to
that yes so you're hearing your project
should suck if you're submitted to the
SCF no but I mean that that's obviously
I think that's a that's a really great
piece of feedback and that's what I've
been hearing too like it doesn't need to
be perfect the first time your MVP
should be like super like simple super
like basic doesn't need to be perfect
don't over engineer and just get it in
front of people I think that's great
great
advice let me see we have a anyone
wants to add to that before we go into
next
section right right no so the project
isak very good advice I love that but
obviously we're here to make it better
like and and it's always going to be re
like iterative and you can even work as
as was mentioned here partner with
companies like make it better like
there's new opportunities if you just
get it out in front of people we have
a question here from John Woodard and
this goes a bit more into the demos and
kind of like graphics and whatnot so
what sort of like demos are expected and
and what are the what are some advice
that some of the panelists would give
around this
I mean oh go ahead go ahead Walter
yeah what what I would say is that I
don't know if there's any
expectances it depends on what you're
building but what I would say is that be
careful to look at design no matter what
you do if it's not your presentation
or if you're building a consumer facing
product at least take a look at your
design if you don't have a designer in
your team find find someone that can
help you even if you do it through I
don't know Fiverr or something make sure
that it stands out it looks good but
also use it to to structure what you're
building because if you go through
design process you will run into
challenges it will improve your product
but it will also make make it easier to
explain to people why what you're
building is unique so I would say
no matter what you do and what you show
be careful to to take a look at design
as well make look
good yeah making it look good is very
important I think like a lot of
people like like including me like we
like verifi members read a lot of
submissions and it's nice to actually
see some some visual assets and I I
know beans you did that really well
beans actually had a really great demo
unfortunately my Discord recording
skills weren't as good so I cannot I
cannot reproduce but definitely the
next candidate pitches we we should be
all set on that let me see like I
actually you know like the design was
really good on all of these the the
project panelist that are here and
definitely check it out on on the
project site on seller Community Fund
website let me see because I offered
pay I also really liked your designs as
well did you do
any I was actually gonna gon to mention
exactly what you of that the cool thing
is that you're able to go through some
of the previous projects that are
winners and and see what they put
together and that's something that we
did for sure before we submit our
application was go through some of the
previous winners see what they had done
and to L point I think design is is is
important one of the things that we
did and ultimately as we said the the
whole concept with our projects is is to
to exit out of the Community Fund stage
and you know to grow them so you're
eventually going to have to build out a
pitch Teck and a lot of the questions
that come out of the Community Fund are
questions that you need to have in your
pitch check so what's the problem that
you're going after what's the solution
so maybe even uploading that slide
from your pitch deck to give it a
graphic that maybe adds a little bit of
twist of what your brand is what your
product does etc might allow to to might
allow you to stick out versus other
projects because when you're going when
you when there's so many applications
that are just all text it can be pretty
hard to just to go through so so so many
whereas maybe you see like wow these
people have a really cool brand they
have a really cool way of of
communicating this to others and and
it's something that that'll stick out so
definitely go through the previous
winners on the Community Fund site
and and see what they've done as IA
said beans did a great job as well so
definitely go through them and take a
look and and use use them for
reference yeah may maybe to add one
thing is that the pitch which which
we did that wasn't recorded what what
really helped us is to pre-record our
demo so what we did is did a live
demo pre-record it and then talk over it
during the pitch so that you you're not
focused on clicking all the buttons and
all things that can go wrong during a a
live demo so I think that helped a lot
to to prere Rec it and then put it in
the
slides yeah that was actually a a legit
presentation like we were like everyone
who was watching like Tyler like
everyone on my team was like whoa like
pre-record like this is like because
everything obviously went well right
it's like you were you looked like you
were doing Livewire and and we were like
really impressed but yeah know it's like
a those are like some great great
tactics too let me see we have a few
minutes here and I want to go onto
some other questions as well so
another question I get often is
what's the best strategy for the grant
amount and I I know that you know we've
amount and I know that you know we've
actually changed budget guidelines
quite a bit throughout the SCF
rounds right now like we maximum
amount is 200k and but we have
different projects like of different
budget Scopes like depending on
the project scope so like we have like
beneath like 10,000 for small scope
projects beneath under like
$50,000 worth of xlm for kind of medium
scope projects that are really like for
new project but also we have under U
200,000 which is really like people
that of existing companies that want
to scale a new product or like
Kickstart a new development on that
front so yeah here it says what is the
best strategy to kind of get in for
into the Stella Community Fund and I
into the Stellar Community Fund and I
know that quid like I know that you
haven't had any previous can
really experience right in the Stella
community and you chose a little bit of
a lower a budget on the lower end can
you tell us a bit more about your
strategy
there sure so I mean when we when we
applied we just needed or were
looking for funding to even just build
right so we were looking for funding for
Developers for maybe a bit of of a
marketing campaign and so we I think
we did less than 50,000 if I remember
correctly yes and you know based on
advice as well you know just looking
at what other people had done and I I
mean first of all not to just deviate
but can I just do and can I just brag on
anchor because I'm telling you look if
she's on your corner you are made right
so let me just quickly brag on her and
just say that everything she said we
should do we did right so but there was
a lot of advice around you know how to
sort of what to do and everything and
she has been such a phenomenal support
and just supporter of just our our
our you know our product what we're
trying to build the vision and
everything so just going back to your
to answer your question so again we
asked for a smaller amount and we
actually got it and I'll say even now
when everybody's talking about we've
been very misly with even those funds
right because we're using it to we're
able to pay for developers we were
able to do some marketing campaign like
I said and we we still have some left
that we're still you know managing
right and so it's just been
phenomenal with just what we've been
trying to do and so anybody who's coming
in unless you already have like an
established product or something
that already has like a lot of traction
I would say start small and you know
SCF the beauty of of the fund is that
you don't just get it one time and
you're shut out you know you can always
come back like everybody has said once
you able to prove the concept and you
know get more traction you can come back
and ask for maybe higher amount and
so don't feel like you have to ask for
the moon first go around you know if you
you know ask for what you need but make
it make it manageable enough that
people within the the the community
would be able to say okay yeah this is
this makes
sense yeah yeah I think that that that's
great advice also to really get get your
foot in theuring and get get traction
and just build that and you can always
submit again right all right well we
actually like the time flies like
it's already almost done and anyone here
any last advice for for scf1
submitters feel free to
unmute yeah just have fun you know I
mean there's there's a lot of great
opportunities out there I think
there's the I mean since all of us
have entered there have been continual
upgrades continuous new
countries that have been really
expanding their use cases and so just
be creative have fun and and do
it yeah I think that's a great point
just don't don't only do it to win the
funding but just have fun get feedback
interact with people improve use it
to write down whatever you're building
validate your ID so I think that's very
valuable already so yeah great
Point yeah I would also chime in and say
well sorry about that I would also Chim
in and say don't don't leave it till the
last minute to fill out your your
submission right start working on it now
so that you can sort of you know kick
the tires around it you know let people
around you sort of look at it read it
give you feedback put that in the in
the in your submission and then just to
make it as Crisp And as as as great as
it can potentially be
thanks going to say something similar I
feel like it's the the standards have
got a lot higher since we went in so up
your game the professionalism of the you
know of the applications have gotten so
much better but that being said yeah
there's nothing to lose by just
applying and getting some great feedback
and especially if you're new to the
community Jump Jump Right In it's
really a supportive
one and I I'll add that if if you
don't win one time or two times keep
applying because I think that a large
part of being a Founder is grit and
being relentless so the community
loves to see two three time people who
who apply and I think that that has a
lot of value so
yeah thank you so much everyone for that
advice I think that's yeah it's it's was
really great to hear from all of you and
really got into the examples of like you
know the generic advice that we give all
the time yes that's true our application
has become a little bit more more
complicated but that's that's a good
exercise for you to l write down your
business you know I'm trying to yeah
we're trying to streamline it every
round the stf changes every now round
because we grow with the needs of the
community and the growing Stellar
ecosystem which is really exciting we're
also having some you know sneak peek
we're having some really exciting
updates for scf2 that I'll be sharing in
the next few weeks so definitely stay
tuned but in the meantime if you want to
keep up to date with this and learn more
about the Stell Community Fund we have
an exciting like website that we
recently renewed shout out to Charles
from our design team it's very great
it's called a community fund.
Stellar.org so definitely check out and
check out the projects the our
panelists here and many more exciting
projects that have in in the past
submitted to SCF we as mentioned here
we have a exciting stallo Community Fund
Discord where you can find many of these
of our panelist actually all
panelists here and many more on
Discord and ask questions and whatnot
and we have recently also added an SF
handbook so if you're like really
want to know the details of how
everything works definitely check that
out you can find it on community fund.
Stellar.org and it will answer most
if not all of your questions and then
we also post a regular updates in our
Stell Community medium so definitely
check all of those out it's 2011 thank
you so much to everyone here
participating it was great to hear from
you and I look forward to everyone's
submissions to
scf1 awesome well thank you so much
everyone